Editing QTS page content (#3093)
DFE-Digital/get-into-teaching-app: app/views/content/what-is-qts.md

  - State-school
---

You need qualified teacher status (QTS) to teach in maintained primary, secondary and special schools in England. These are schools funded by local authorities.

Some schools can employ teachers without QTS (for example, [private schools](https://www.gov.uk/types-of-school/private-schools) and [academy schools](https://www.gov.uk/types-of-school/academies)) but many still use it to assess the quality of candidates.

You do not need QTS to teach in [further education](/become-a-further-education-teacher) or work in [early years education](/early-years-teaching-training).

$international-content$

> ## Get QTS through teacher training

Reviewer: @EllieNodder Is this section slightly confusing with three different links? Particularly the first and third link, which sound quite similar:

* Find out more about teacher training
* postgraduate certificate in education (PGCE)
* Find out how to get QTS through teacher training

I know that the destination pages have different content but I found it a bit confusing - I'm not sure as a user I would know quite which one to pick

Author: @gemmadallmandfe good point. How about we ditch the first teacher training link and put that in the related content section instead, replacing the blog (bottom link)?

The main CTA for that section should be the final how to get QTS through teacher training link (and there's a link on that page to the other one anyway)

[Find out more about teacher training](/train-to-be-a-teacher/initial-teacher-training).

You can also get a postgraduate qualification through teacher training such as a [postgraduate certificate in education (PGCE)](/what-is-a-pgce). 

Some courses just offer a PGCE without QTS, but this means you may not be fully qualified to teach in your chosen school.

[Find out how to get QTS through teacher training](/train-to-be-a-teacher).

## Get QTS through an assessment only programme

You could get QTS through an assessment only programme. This means you can show that you already meet the standards for QTS without having to do any more training.

You can usually do this if you’ve worked as an unqualified teacher:

* for a significant amount of time (for example, 2 years)
* in more than one school

[Find out how to get QTS through assessment only](/train-to-be-a-teacher/if-you-have-experience).

## Get QTS if you qualified as a teacher outside England

If you trained to teach in Wales, your QTS will be automatically recognised in England and awarded by the [Education Workforce Council (EWC)](https://www.ewc.wales/site/index.php/en/).

> If you trained to teach in Scotland, Northern Ireland or outside the UK, you may be able to apply for QTS in England without any further fees or training.

Reviewer: @EllieNodder Is the 'outside the UK' obvious enough? I read Scotland and Northern Ireland only when first scanning through, and then wondered why we didn't talk about non-UK people :-)

Might just be me though!

Author: @gemmadallmandfe 
```suggestion
If you trained to teach anywhere else outside England (including countries outside the UK), you may be able to apply for QTS without any further fees or training.
```
do you think this works better?

Reviewer: How about 'If you trained to teach in Scotland, Northern Ireland or in a country outside the UK,....'
